+++
title="May 2021"
date=2021-05-31
+++

Wow, this month absolutely _flew_ by.  I'm enjoying fully-vaccinated life — though I don't really go out that much still, it's so nice to just, like, go to the dog park and not worry.  I went to the Punk Rock Flea Market!  I took the bus for the first time in something like… 15 months!  I went back to IKEA!  I went back to the arcade!

Just a little while longer now until the office reopens, and _then_ I'll really feel like the world has shifted back into the place where I want it to be.

Other than that, there's not a lot going on!  I've shifted to using Habitica again — I used it quite a bit back in 2014, when it was still known as HabitRPG.  Really, I think the delineation between habits, recurring tasks, and todos in Habitica is extremely powerful:  anything that I would try to build for myself would just be emulating that model, anyway, so I might as well use the real thing and maybe hack on it if there's something I'd like to see in it.  It has evolved so much since 2014, though, that I doubt there's anything about it that I'd want to touch!

I suppose I also have to mention here that I've spent an absurd amount of time reading and learning about investing, a topic which I will only discuss with others if they bring it up first — so I hope that this ends up being the first and last time I mention this thing that's going to take up a not-insignificant amount of my time!

## Music

Here's this month's installment of the playlist!  I hope you enjoy it.  [Here's the article](/music/202105-best), and here's the playlist on Spotify:

{{ spotify(type="playlist", id="2gWkXjlrXfu2Fyu8T8igRI") }}

## Programming

I think the theme this month for me has been learning AWS.  I've touched quite a few of the usual suspects:  Lambda, EC2, S3, and DynamoDB, Route 53 and Certificate Manager, EventBridge, Amplify, and CloudFront.  I want to spend more time with both Cognito and API Gateway — I only did a simple tutorial which kind of breezed through it so far — and I think there's a lot to be said about the time I've spent staring at the billing console so far, trying to make sense of it all.

So a lot of the code I wrote this month outside of work reflects that.

First, I gave Quirk, my [Discord chatbot framework](https://github.com/tjwds/quirk), persistent memory using DynamoDB.  DynamoDB isn't really a great tool for this job, but with a little wiggling it, it really is an inexpensive database that can be plugged in and completely forgotten about.  I still feel like I'm getting the hang of DynamoDB, but this project was really straight-forward.

I wrote this pretty cool (in my opinion, at least) visualization of the articles I've been sharing each week: https://dev.joewoods.dev/roundup/.  This is just another way of looking at [the roundup articles](notes.joewoods.dev/roundup/), which I post every Sunday.  The implementation is a React app, which I build and then put the distributed files on a S3 bucket which has a CloudFront distribution pointing at it; for the actual data, I have a Lambda function pull down the raw data from the Pinboard API once per day (using EventBridge) and put it in a file in that same S3 bucket.  I think this way is a win-win:  I avoid expensive processing and instead cache the results, and Maciej doesn't ban me from a service that I use quite a bit.

Part of my process for the _failbetter_ redesign meant that I wanted to set up a local WordPress theme development workflow; I landed on DevKinsta, a very new tool which mostly acts as a wrapper for Docker, kind of on a lark.  A product of this is that I had to sort of reverse engineer the way their Docker containers work so that I could increase the upload size limit they had set — you can read more about this [here](https://notes.joewoods.dev/programming/devkinsta-upload-limit/).

## Reading

Though I mentioned _1876_ in last month's article, I gave up on it pretty early in the month.  You'll see that a sort of pattern emerges throughout Vidal's historical fiction novels; the two I've read so far, _Burr_ and _Creation_, are set against these magnificent, rich, exciting backdrops.  I just wasn't getting a lot out of the stagnant upper class in New York in 1876, so I decided to put the novel down instead.

So next I read _Fugitive Telemetry_ by Martha Wells, the next Murderbot short story.  It's, of course, more Murderbot, which means that it's exciting and campy and fun and always feels way too short.  I had a very fun time reading it.

Next, I made pretty good progress on _Fortress Besieged_ by Qian Zhongshu.  I ended up putting it down after a while, though; I think I just wasn't in the right mindset to read anything but books about spaceships with guns attached to them.

So, naturally, next I read _Providence_ by Max Barry.  This is like, peak Max Barry content.  I've been a fan of his for a long time — having discovered his work after playing NationStates long ago — and I've always really loved the perspective that each has.  Each of Barry's novels is immensely cinematic, and each pause from the action has a distinct purpose behind it — more often than not, for a giggle.  This kind of creates a tone that could be interpreted by some as immature, but I _really_ don't care.  I'm always ready to get sucked in to an action novel and I have no pretense about it.  Also:  it's a bit of a wild coincidence that Max Barry released this book right at the beginning of the pandemic — it almost begs itself to be read as a COVID-19 allegory, which it clearly could not have been, given the timeline.

After that, I figured, why not give my brain more sci-fi action?  So, on to _Hail Mary_ by Andy Weir.  This is the third book by Weir that I've read, this one about a different celestial body.  This book is way more out-there than his other two, but still kind of the same; it was a lovely little romp with some clever hooks, just like you'd expect from Andy Weir.

## _failbetter_

This month, _failbetter_ published:

* "[Responding to School Shootings: Six Proposals, and Some Anticipated Drawbacks](https://failbetter.com/content/responding-school-shootings-six-proposals-and-some-anticipated-drawbacks)" by Ben Reed, and,
* "[Scorpio Rising](https://failbetter.com/content/scorpio-rising)" by Dale Trumbore

## Stats

* I typed 980,000 keys and clicked 160,420 times.
* I listened to 1,635 songs.
* 16 albums escaped from [the Album Gauntlet](/music/the-gauntlet/).
* I wrote 24,051 words in my personal journal.

That's it!  Thanks for reading.  Feel free to get in touch with me any time at joewoods@fastmail.com.
