+++
title="August 2021"
date=2021-08-31
+++

Hello!

Well, another month in the books!  Here's what I've been up to.

## Life

After several starts and stops, I've finally developed an actual workout routine.  [Fitbod](https://fitbod.me/) has been a huge help — I'm really not a fan of their price point, but you can't really argue with results!

I am, as always, working on the way that I plan out and reflect on my day.  I've somehow ended up with three journal-like things:  first, my online journal which I write every morning using [750 words](https://750words.com) hasn't changed.  I've taken up my daily agenda system again, to mixed results, but I'm no longer doing the repetitive tracking in it that made it onerous — instead of managing my daily habits on pen and paper, I'm still doing that in Habitica, but I've more gone back to using a notebook to plan out and keep track of my schedule for the day.  Finally, inspired by my rereading of _The Crow Road_, I'm keeping an incredibly short log of what I've done each day in another notebook.  I really like this habit, and I hope I keep it for a while; I think I basically need to be in it for the long haul, since it'll only really pay off when I want to go back and reflect on days in the past.

Finally, I've started playing chess again!  I'm playing on lichess, and I'm doing a little bit of studying with Magnus Trainer.

## Music

Here's this month's installment of the playlist!  I hope you enjoy it.  [Here's the article](/music/202108-best), and here's the playlist on Spotify:

{{ spotify(type="playlist", id="68FZyzBqpwZYBLzmwAx6FL") }}

## Programming

Work continues on the microblog platform; I've made some improvements to, well, just about every piece of it now.  I can tell I'm kind of slowing down the pace as I near the "final touches," but I think if I can just push through one more plateau, I'll now have this great cloud-based platform to start building other services on.  Also, the URL has moved!  You can find those silly posts I'm making here: https://posts.woodssites.com/

I also wrapped up a very quick tool to see which media features your browser reports, which you can find here: https://dev.joewoods.dev/media-features.  I think it still needs some work, but this is the minimum-viable version, and at least it's out there now!

I've just scratched the surface of _Programming in Prolog_ by Clocksin and Mellish.  I haven't quite reached the magic bits yet, but hopefully I'll forge ahead and have more updates when I get there.

## Reading

Within the first few days of the month, I had already given up on Sandi Tan's _Lurkers_.  I don't want to give too much of the book away, but it got to the point where I realized that it _definitely_ wasn't for me — the level of psychological violence depicted in the book just wasn't something I was comfortable with.

Next, I read _Dark Matter_ by Blake Crouch.  I really wasn't a fan.  I really liked his later novel, _Recursion_, but I'm glad I ended up reading them out of order, because _Dark Matter_ has actually somehow impacted my opinion of _Recursion_.  I didn't think the characters in _Dark Matter_ were believable; the thin wrapper of science fiction was kind of absurd and clearly based on a misunderstanding of the actual concept in physics that Crouch attempted to wrap magic around; the horror sections of the book were at best eye-rollingly frustrating … I could go on and on.  I typically don't expound so much on books I don't like, but I was incredibly disappointed by this one.

So, ending a run of four books that I ended up being disappointed by — my unconditionally positive review was in May! — I read _Fool's Errand_ by Robin Hobb.  I did end up enjoying this one — I think I liked it the least out of the six previous books in the series, but it was still an exciting adventure, even if it wasn't as fun of a romp as the other novels.  There were a few tricks the Hobb had to employ to shake the rust off of a few characters, since they were essentially left aside for a three-book intermission, and I think this made the novel not really come together for me as much as I would have liked.  Nevertheless, this is the first novel in a long time that I found myself setting as much time aside as possible to read.  And now, of course, I have to pace myself, otherwise I'd want to just immediately pick up the next book in the series!

After that, I read _The 22 Murders of Madison May_ by Max Barry.  Barry has always been one of my favorite authors, and I read his novel _Providence_ back in May of this year.  In my view, Barry skirts this line between pulp and too-clever extremely well, making novels that always feel like action films, incredibly well paced with the absolutely cheesiest one-liners thrown in that you can't help but to chuckle at.  But, of course, eventually one of these novels was going to be a bit of a miss for me.  I enjoyed it, but not as much as I typically enjoy Barry's work — this one felt way more like a horror film, and I tend to avoid those.  Also, it's completely unfortunate that this novel was released at a time where we're really facing a flood of the sci-fi motif that this story is built around, and though Barry has done it the best that I've seen so far, I'm just not a huge fan of the trope in general.  I definitely had a good time, but I would recommend that folks new to Barry's work start with another one of his novels instead.

Huh, looks like I read a lot this month!

## _failbetter_

This month, _failbetter_ published "[The Fall](https://failbetter.com/content/guo-fall)" by Joy Guo and "[Orphan](https://failbetter.com/content/orphan)" by Christina Reiss.

## Stats

* I typed 790,000 keys and clicked 118,424 times.
* I listened to 859 songs.
* 1 album escaped from [the Album Gauntlet](/music/the-gauntlet/). (Oh no!)
* I wrote 24,063 words in my personal journal.

That's it!  Thanks for reading.  Feel free to get in touch with me any time at joewoods@fastmail.com.
